# ARABLE-PRODUCTION-ON-CEREALS-IN-IRELAND
Abstract

The arable production of cereal crops(barley, wheat, oats) in Ireland has been an important agricultural activity for many years. In this study, data on the arable production of cereal crops in Ireland and other EU countries were analysed and compared. In embracing technological advancements, this study incorporated machine learning models to best fit and understand people’s sentiments regarding cereal crop production. Compared to other European Union countries, Ireland's cereal crop production is relatively small.
 Ireland’s cereal crop production is relatively small compared to other European countries. France and Germany are the prominent cereal producers in the European Union, followed by Italy and the United Kingdom. Ireland's cereal yields are also lower than the EU average, with an average yield of 4.6 tons per hectare compared to the EU average of 6.2 tons per hectare.
A CRISP-DM (Cross Industry Standard Process) was used to explore, transform and model the data to achieve the objectives and goals.  Different non-parametric inferential statistical techniques were deployed to find similarities between some countries against Ireland. The rationale used to select the appropriate inferential statistical technique was based on applying the Shapiro-Wilk test to find the normality of the data set first. Ireland’s data were non-parametric, therefore, a reason to compare similarities with other non-parametric countries. The non-parametric tests were; the Kruskal-Wallis H test, The Friedman test, the Wilcoxon signed-rank test,  Man-Whitney U Test and the Chi-square test.
Sentiment analysis was done on the prices of wheat cereal. A test was done to learn and understand the positive and negative sentiments. The number of negative sentiments was high compared to the positive sentiments. Two machine models; Logistic Regression and Decision Tree Classifier, were used. A GridSearch CV for the best hyperparameters and Cross-Validation for the performance was conducted on the two machine-learning models. The Decision Tree Classifier had an accuracy, precision and recall of 100% and a cross-validation mean of 0.99 and a standard deviation of 0.02, indicating that the performance of this model is stable and less prone to fluctuations. The Logistic Regression model had a training accuracy of 98%, and test accuracy of 100%  The precision, recall and f1-score for this model was 100%. This indicates that the machine model could learn from the data and be used to make a prediction.
Ireland's cereal crops are known for their high quality and are in demand domestically and internationally. Irish farmers have embraced modern technologies and best practices, which have helped to improve the efficiency and productivity of cereal crop production.
